README.md, before:

# Action-on-LAN
Run of the mill Wake-on-LAN is a technology that lets network cards power on devices when they recieve a specifically crafted packet (a magic packet).

This repo is a suite of tools that utilises raw sockets to listen for these magic packets whilst powered on and perform a user defined command when detected.

For example this set of tools makes it possible to issue a `shutdown now` command on recieving a magic packet. This means (assuming Wake-On-LAN is enabled) a given magic packet can now toggle the power state of the host.

## How to run
Only python3 needs to be installed

This can be achieve in debain linux variants by doing:

```bash
sudo apt install python3
```
Once the dependancies have been met the programs can be run as follows:
```bash
sudo python3 udp_actioner [command]
or
sudo python3 eth_actioner [command]
or
sudo python3 unified_actioner [command]
```

The command will then be executed when a magic-packet is detected. sudo is required to work with raw sockets.

## udp_actioner
udp_actioner will monitor the network for udp port 9 with valid magic packet data

This type of packet is sent by most wake-on-lan tools / programs

The ```port=``` variable can be overwritten in the source code if you are using a non-standard port. 

## eth_actioner
eth_actioner will monitor the network for wake-on-LAN ethernet frames (0x0842).

This type of packet is sent by ethtool on linux.

## unified_actioner

Does checking for both types of wake-on-LAN packets.

## systemd

Included is an Example.service that can be installed on linux systems running systemd under ```/etc/systemd/system/``` you would then enable and start the service:

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable Example.service
sudo systemctl start Example.service
```
This would allow the monitor to run in the background, autostarting at boot time.

## notes

If the mac address auto detection is not working for you, you could hard code a mac address at the top of the file in any of the actioners. 

Python is cross platform but at least parts of this tool won't work in windows (e.g mac detection).

## thanks

Big thanks to davidlares for the [gist](https://gist.github.com/davidlares/e841c0f9d9b31f3cd8859575d061c467#file-rawsniffer-py) that got me started on this project

Commit message:

\n now stripped from mac_address and changed hashbang to force python3, ditched old scripts for unified.

README.md, after:

# Action-on-LAN
Run of the mill Wake-on-LAN is a technology that lets network cards power on devices when they recieve a specifically crafted packet (a magic packet).

This repo contains a script that utilises raw sockets to listen for these magic packets whilst powered on and performs a user defined command when detected.

For example this set of tools makes it possible to issue a `shutdown now` command on recieving a magic packet. This means (assuming Wake-On-LAN is enabled) a given magic packet can now toggle the power state of the host.

## How to run
python3 is required to run the script

This can be achieve in debain linux variants by doing:

```bash
sudo apt install python3
```
Once the dependancies have been met the programs can be run as follows:
```bash
chmod 755 magic_actioner.py
sudo ./magic_actioner.py [command]
```

The command will then be executed when a magic-packet is detected. sudo is required to work with raw sockets.

## Functionality
magic_actioner.py will monitor the network for magic packets, both UDP (on configured port) and WOL ethernet frames (0x0842)

The `port=` variable can be overwritten in the source code if you are using a non-standard port. 

## unified_actioner

Does checking for both types of wake-on-LAN packets.

## systemd

Included is an Example.service that can be installed on linux systems running systemd under ```/etc/systemd/system/``` you would then enable and start the service:

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable Example.service
sudo systemctl start Example.service
```
This would allow the monitor to run in the background, autostarting at boot time.

## notes

magic_actioner.py tries to deduce your active mac address. If the mac address auto detection is not working for you, you can edit the source code to hard code `mac_address=` to a desired value. 

Python *is* cross platform but at least parts of this tool won't work in windows (e.g mac detection).

## thanks

Big thanks to davidlares for the [gist](https://gist.github.com/davidlares/e841c0f9d9b31f3cd8859575d061c467#file-rawsniffer-py) that got me started on this project
